the sport of mountain biking is one of the best active sports you can do for a number of fitness reasons and depending on what style of mountain biking you partake in, it can be also a great deal of fun as well as keeping you fit at the same time. people are usually unaware of how many muscles you use when riding a mountain bike, and how quickly you can burn calories off riding a bike as it can be an extremely good work out for the body. if you plan on riding cross-country along different styles of trails, riding a bike can be quite a task. so if you riding over a vast distance up and down hills, along slippery single trail it can be very exhausting on the legs and the lower back. so if you are just starting to ride bikes for the first time, please don't just jump on the bike and go for a 20 mile as it may do you more harm than good. one thing that is recommended is to do short rides to start with, maybe only a couple of miles which will take no time at all on a bike to get your fitness training up to scratch before hitting the bike ride.


The main occupation of the people in our country is farming. We depend on rainwater to grow crops. It does not rain regularly throughout the year. We do not receive the same amount of rainfall in all parts of the country. Thus we cannot depend only upon rainfall to grow our crops. We must make other arrangements to water the fields at the proper time. Irrigation is one of the important ways to do it. Canals, wells and tanks are three important means of irrigation. Today, India has one of the largest irrigation systems in the world. The canal is the most important source of irrigation in India. Channels are dug to build canals. River-water is diverted into these canals. The canals can take river-water to the far-off fields, where there is not enough water. At some places, the river-water has to be stored. We can build a barrier of cement and steel to block the flow of river water. This is called a dam. A huge lake is created behind the dam. The water from the lake can regulate the flow of water in the river. The water from such lakes can also be diverted to the canals for irrigation. Punjab, Haryana, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu have a good network of canals. Dams also help in the production of electricity. When water from the lake behind the dam is made to fall from a high point, it is used to turn turbines which produce electricity. The dam also helps to control floods in the river. A project which helps to provide water for irrigation, produces electricity and controls floods in the river is called a multipurpose project. our government has built a number of multipurpose projects.



A child belongs to a poor background. One day when he was returning home from school with his friends, they (his friends) bought candies. He, however, had no money but still stole the candy because he wanted one. He did not eat it there, he went to his home and shared it with his mother. His mother ‘appreciated’ this and gave him a hug. This was a significant event in his childhood as the fact that his mother appreciated the fruit of his theft reinforced into his psyche that it was OK to steal things which you cannot buy. As we see later, this is repeated in his life at various points. When the child grew, his friends got bicycles and he too wanted one. And just like the candy in his early years, he stole the bicycle too. He goes on to show the bicycle to his mom. She likes the fact that he has the bicycle in his possession and remarks that he can now go 'home from the school faster' and gives him a hug. This event again reiterates the fact that stealing is OK, in fact, it is appreciated by his mother. at this point, this is engraved in the child's mind. Also, another fact to notice is that the mother says he can come home from school faster, rather than reaching school faster and early or on time. This also shows where her moral compass lies. The other fact to note at this point is that she never asks what is the sources of the things that he got. After several years, the kid grows to be a man. He steals a car when his friends get cars. He takes it to his home and shows it to his mom. This time she is proud of him and even involves the spiritual angles of taking the car for Murat to Ambaji. They go there and do the required ceremony. Again, she rewards his son with a hug. This man is now a seasoned thief and would rather steal something than to work towards it. As with other incidents of his life, his mother reinforces this action. This time she also includes 'GOD' in this and makes a very big deal out of it.
